README.md, before:

# SWRdata/Components

Experimental component library for SWR Data interactives.

[![Deploy Storybook](https://github.com/SWRdata/components/actions/workflows/deploy-storybook.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/SWRdata/components/actions/workflows/deploy-storybook.yml)

## Project structure

There are three parts to this repository:

1. `/components`: Central repository for reusable components, utility scripts, and other reusable assets. We use [Storybook](https://storybook.js.org/) for previewing and component testing.
2. `/mock-sveltekit`: Sample [SvelteKit](https://kit.svelte.dev/) application used to test our components and develop the configuration needed to build our applications for SWR.de, the SWR Aktuell native app and wherever else they need to go.
3. `/mock-sophora`: Testing environment designed to mimic the SWR.de environment, featuring [`defunkt/jquery-pjax`](https://github.com/defunkt/jquery-pjax) navigation, global styles and server-side includes.

## Proposed workflow

1. Run `npm run start` in the `/components` directory to launch Storybook, then work on any component
2. Run `npm run start` in the `mock-sveltekit` directory to launch the sample app, import your components and ensure they work as expected.
3. When you're done run `npm run build` to make a static build of the sample app
4. Run `npm run import` in the `mock-sophora/` directory to import the statically-built app into the `_includes` directory (this mimics a server-side include)
5. Run `npm run start` to start the mock Sophora environment and see if your app behaves as expected.

## Notes

-   Steps 2 - 5 in the proposed workflow above should (?) be automated
-   The **[pjax hydration bug](https://github.com/SWRdata/pjax-sveltekit/issues/3)** is solved in `mock-sveltekit` using a [server hook](https://github.com/SWRdata/components/blob/main/mock-sveltekit/src/hooks.server.js), as [suggested here](https://github.com/sveltejs/kit/issues/10411).
-   **Style encapsulation** between our news apps and the SWR.de website is implemented using SvelteKit's [Custom Elements API](https://svelte.dev/docs/custom-elements-api) following the pattern [developed here](https://github.com/SWRdata/pjax-sveltekit/issues/1). This doesn't support [declarative shadow DOM](https://web.dev/articles/declarative-shadow-dom), which means our apps will in effect be client-side rendered, but this...
    -   is an acceptable tradeoff
    -   may [change in Svelte 5](https://github.com/sveltejs/svelte/pull/10721)

## NPM Release Workflow

Merges into the main branch automatically trigger a release to NPM and update the GitHub tag accordingly.

### Branch Protection

Merges into the main branch are protected and require a pull request review.

### Automatic Publishing & Semantic Versioning

[Semantic Release](https://github.com/semantic-release/) automatically:

-   analyzes commits and bumps the version (major, minor, or patch).
-   publishes the package to the [NPM registry](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@swr-data-lab/components).
-   pushes the release to GitHub with a tag reflecting the NPM package version.

Only merges following [conventional commits](https://www.conventionalcommits.org/) will trigger a new release. Quick summary:

-   PATCH version bump: commit with message "fix: ..."
-   MINOR version bump: commit with message "feat: ..."
-   MAJOR version bump: commit with message "<type>!: ..." or include "BREAKING CHANGE: ..." in the footer

### GitHub Action Configuration

See the [`release.yml` workflow](.github/workflows/release.yml).

### Private Registry

The package is currently pushed with restricted acces, as configured in [`components/package.json`](components/package.json):

```
"publishConfig": {
    "access": "restricted"
},
```

Therefore, the authentication configuration inside the [`.npmrc` config file](components/.npmrc) is required. The `NPM_TOKEN` is filled from the GitHub repository secret.

### How to use the released package

See the [usage example repository](https://github.com/SWRdata/components-usage-example) and follow the instructions in its README.

Commit message:

fix: Add semantic-release docs to README

README.md, after:

# SWRdata/Components

Experimental component library for SWR Data interactives.

[![Deploy Storybook](https://github.com/SWRdata/components/actions/workflows/deploy-storybook.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/SWRdata/components/actions/workflows/deploy-storybook.yml)

## Project structure

There are three parts to this repository:

1. `/components`: Central repository for reusable components, utility scripts, and other reusable assets. We use [Storybook](https://storybook.js.org/) for previewing and component testing.
2. `/mock-sveltekit`: Sample [SvelteKit](https://kit.svelte.dev/) application used to test our components and develop the configuration needed to build our applications for SWR.de, the SWR Aktuell native app and wherever else they need to go.
3. `/mock-sophora`: Testing environment designed to mimic the SWR.de environment, featuring [`defunkt/jquery-pjax`](https://github.com/defunkt/jquery-pjax) navigation, global styles and server-side includes.

## Proposed workflow

1. Run `npm run start` in the `/components` directory to launch Storybook, then work on any component
2. Run `npm run start` in the `mock-sveltekit` directory to launch the sample app, import your components and ensure they work as expected.
3. When you're done run `npm run build` to make a static build of the sample app
4. Run `npm run import` in the `mock-sophora/` directory to import the statically-built app into the `_includes` directory (this mimics a server-side include)
5. Run `npm run start` to start the mock Sophora environment and see if your app behaves as expected.

## Notes

-   Steps 2 - 5 in the proposed workflow above should (?) be automated
-   The **[pjax hydration bug](https://github.com/SWRdata/pjax-sveltekit/issues/3)** is solved in `mock-sveltekit` using a [server hook](https://github.com/SWRdata/components/blob/main/mock-sveltekit/src/hooks.server.js), as [suggested here](https://github.com/sveltejs/kit/issues/10411).
-   **Style encapsulation** between our news apps and the SWR.de website is implemented using SvelteKit's [Custom Elements API](https://svelte.dev/docs/custom-elements-api) following the pattern [developed here](https://github.com/SWRdata/pjax-sveltekit/issues/1). This doesn't support [declarative shadow DOM](https://web.dev/articles/declarative-shadow-dom), which means our apps will in effect be client-side rendered, but this...
    -   is an acceptable tradeoff
    -   may [change in Svelte 5](https://github.com/sveltejs/svelte/pull/10721)

## NPM Release Workflow

Merges into the main branch automatically trigger a release to NPM and update the GitHub tag accordingly.

### Branch Protection

Merges into the main branch are protected and require a pull request review.

### Automatic Publishing & Semantic Versioning

[Semantic Release](https://github.com/semantic-release/) automatically:

-   analyzes commits and bumps the version (major, minor, or patch).
-   publishes the package to the [NPM registry](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@swr-data-lab/components).
-   pushes the release to GitHub with a tag reflecting the NPM package version.

Only merges following [conventional commits](https://www.conventionalcommits.org/) will trigger a new release. Quick summary:

-   PATCH version bump: commit with message "fix: ..."
-   MINOR version bump: commit with message "feat: ..."
-   MAJOR version bump: commit with message "<type>!: ..." or include "BREAKING CHANGE: ..." in the footer

For further questions, refer to the [Semantic Release Docs (FAQ)](https://semantic-release.gitbook.io/semantic-release/support/faq).

### GitHub Action Configuration

See the [`release.yml` workflow](.github/workflows/release.yml) and the release plugins in the `package.json`](components/package.json).

### Private Registry

The package is currently pushed with restricted acces, as configured in the [`package.json`](components/package.json):

```
"publishConfig": {
    "access": "restricted"
},
```

Therefore, the authentication configuration inside the [`.npmrc` config file](components/.npmrc) is required. The `NPM_TOKEN` is filled from the GitHub repository secret.

### How to use the released package

See the [usage example repository](https://github.com/SWRdata/components-usage-example) and follow the instructions in its README.
