components/src/maplibre/Maplibre.mdx, before:

import { Meta } from '@storybook/addon-docs/blocks';
import { Story, Primary, Controls, Stories } from '@storybook/addon-docs/blocks';
import * as MapStories from './Map/Map.stories.svelte';
import * as MapStyleStories from './MapStyle/SWRDataLabLight.stories.svelte';

<Meta title="Maplibre" />

# Maplibre

Lightweight Svelte components and basemaps for rendering custom slippy maps using the [versatiles](https://docs.versatiles.org/) stack.

Based on [prior work](https://github.com/SWRdata/frontend_svelte_p012_spritpreise/blob/main/src/lib/components/Map/Map.svelte) from [Michael Kreil](https://github.com/MichaelKreil), [Jakob Bauer](https://github.com/AgricolaJKB), [dimfield](https://github.com/dimfeld/svelte-maplibre) and [MIRUNE](https://github.com/MIERUNE/svelte-maplibre-gl).

<Story of={MapStyleStories.Default} />

<br />

## Usage

This example initialises a map using the SWRDataLabLight style, adds an additional vector tile source and renders it as a vector layer.

```jsx
<script>
  import {
    Map,
    VectorLayer,
    AttributionControl,
    VectorTileSource,
    SWRDataLabLight,
    DesignTokens
  } from '@swr-data-lab/components';
</script>

<DesignTokens>
  <div class='container'>
    <Map style={SWRDataLabLight()}>
      <VectorTileSource
        id='ev-infra-source'
        url='https://static.datenhub.net/data/p108_e_auto_check/ev_infra_merged.versatiles?tiles/{z}/{x}/{y}'>
      </VectorTileSource>
      <VectorLayer
        sourceId='ev-infra-source'
        sourceLayer='coverage'
        id='ev-infra-outline'
        type='line'
        paint={{'line-width': 1, 'line-color': 'red'}}>
      </VectorLayer>
      <AttributionControl />
    </Map>
  </div>
</DesignTokens>

<style>
  .container {
    width: 100%;
    height: 600px;
  }
</style>
```

## Available components

### Sources

- **[VectorTileSource](?path=/docs/maplibre-source-vectortilesource--docs)**: Loads vector tile data supplied by a tileserver
- **[GeoJSONSource](?path=/docs/maplibre-source-geojsonsource--docs)**: Loads a vector data from a GeoJSON object or file

### Layers

- **[VectorLayer](?path=/docs/maplibre-layer-vectorlayer--docs)**: Renders a layer from a vector tile source.

### Controls

- **[ScaleControl](?path=/docs/maplibre-control-scalecontrol--docs)**: Renders a dynamic scalebar
- **[NavigationControl](?path=/docs/maplibre-control-navigationcontrol--docs)**: Renders zoom buttons and optional compass
- **[GeocoderControl](?path=/docs/maplibre-control-geocodercontrol--docs)**: Renders a search input using [maplibre-gl-geocoder](https://github.com/maplibre/maplibre-gl-geocoder) and any supported forward geocoding service (currently [maptiler](https://www.maptiler.com/) only)
- **[AttributionControl](?path=/docs/maplibre-control-attributioncontrol--docs)**: Renders maplibre's default attribution control
- **[Custom controls](?path=/docs/maplibre-control-mapcontrol--docs)**: Renders arbitrary HTML inside maplibre's layout

### Misc

- **[Tooltip](?path=/docs/maplibre-extras-tooltip--docs)**
- **[WithLinkLocation](?path=/docs/maplibre-extras-withlinklocation--docs)**: Derive the maps `initialLocation` from a URL parameter via forward geocoding

### Styles

- **[SWR Data Lab Light](?path=/docs/maplibre-style-swr-data-lab-light--docs)**: Light-themed basemap using SWR colours and typefaces
- Any valid MapLibre style specification, such as [versatiles-style](https://github.com/versatiles-org/versatiles-style) (see [demo](?path=/story/map-map--alternate-style))

## Known issues

- Firefox throws warning `WebGL warning: texImage: Alpha-premult and y-flip are deprecated for non-DOM-Element uploads`: Known [upstream mapligre-gl issue](https://github.com/maplibre/maplibre-gl-js/issues/2030) (safe to ignore)

Commit message:

feat(Map): add mapContext prop (#99)
Adds a bindable mapContext prop to the Map component so maplibre APIs can be access from outside the component.

components/src/maplibre/Maplibre.mdx, after:

import { Meta } from '@storybook/addon-docs/blocks';
import { Story, Primary, Controls, Stories } from '@storybook/addon-docs/blocks';
import * as MapStories from './Map/Map.stories.svelte';
import * as MapStyleStories from './MapStyle/SWRDataLabLight.stories.svelte';

<Meta title="Maplibre" />

# Maplibre

Lightweight Svelte components and basemaps for rendering custom slippy maps using the [versatiles](https://docs.versatiles.org/) stack.

Based on [prior work](https://github.com/SWRdata/frontend_svelte_p012_spritpreise/blob/main/src/lib/components/Map/Map.svelte) from [Michael Kreil](https://github.com/MichaelKreil), [Jakob Bauer](https://github.com/AgricolaJKB), [dimfield](https://github.com/dimfeld/svelte-maplibre) and [MIRUNE](https://github.com/MIERUNE/svelte-maplibre-gl).

<Story of={MapStyleStories.Default} />

<br />

## Usage

This example initialises a map using the SWRDataLabLight style, adds an additional vector tile source and renders it as a vector layer.

```jsx
<script>
  import {
    Map,
    VectorLayer,
    AttributionControl,
    VectorTileSource,
    SWRDataLabLight,
    DesignTokens
  } from '@swr-data-lab/components';
</script>

<DesignTokens>
  <div class='container'>
    <Map style={SWRDataLabLight()}>
      <VectorTileSource
        id='ev-infra-source'
        url='https://static.datenhub.net/data/p108_e_auto_check/ev_infra_merged.versatiles?tiles/{z}/{x}/{y}'>
      </VectorTileSource>
      <VectorLayer
        sourceId='ev-infra-source'
        sourceLayer='coverage'
        id='ev-infra-outline'
        type='line'
        paint={{'line-width': 1, 'line-color': 'red'}}>
      </VectorLayer>
      <AttributionControl />
    </Map>
  </div>
</DesignTokens>

<style>
  .container {
    width: 100%;
    height: 600px;
  }
</style>
```

- `mapContext` is [bindable](https://svelte.dev/docs/svelte/$bindable), so you can access MapLibre APIs from outside the `<Map>` component. This is useful if you want to control the map programatically, ie. in a scrollytelling application.

## Available components

### Sources

- **[VectorTileSource](?path=/docs/maplibre-source-vectortilesource--docs)**: Loads vector tile data supplied by a tileserver
- **[GeoJSONSource](?path=/docs/maplibre-source-geojsonsource--docs)**: Loads a vector data from a GeoJSON object or file

### Layers

- **[VectorLayer](?path=/docs/maplibre-layer-vectorlayer--docs)**: Renders a layer from a vector tile source.

### Controls

- **[ScaleControl](?path=/docs/maplibre-control-scalecontrol--docs)**: Renders a dynamic scalebar
- **[NavigationControl](?path=/docs/maplibre-control-navigationcontrol--docs)**: Renders zoom buttons and optional compass
- **[GeocoderControl](?path=/docs/maplibre-control-geocodercontrol--docs)**: Renders a search input using [maplibre-gl-geocoder](https://github.com/maplibre/maplibre-gl-geocoder) and any supported forward geocoding service (currently [maptiler](https://www.maptiler.com/) only)
- **[AttributionControl](?path=/docs/maplibre-control-attributioncontrol--docs)**: Renders maplibre's default attribution control
- **[Custom controls](?path=/docs/maplibre-control-mapcontrol--docs)**: Renders arbitrary HTML inside maplibre's layout

### Misc

- **[Tooltip](?path=/docs/maplibre-extras-tooltip--docs)**
- **[WithLinkLocation](?path=/docs/maplibre-extras-withlinklocation--docs)**: Derive the maps `initialLocation` from a URL parameter via forward geocoding

### Styles

- **[SWR Data Lab Light](?path=/docs/maplibre-style-swr-data-lab-light--docs)**: Light-themed basemap using SWR colours and typefaces
- Any valid MapLibre style specification, such as [versatiles-style](https://github.com/versatiles-org/versatiles-style) (see [demo](?path=/story/map-map--alternate-style))

## Known issues

- Firefox throws warning `WebGL warning: texImage: Alpha-premult and y-flip are deprecated for non-DOM-Element uploads`: Known [upstream mapligre-gl issue](https://github.com/maplibre/maplibre-gl-js/issues/2030) (safe to ignore)
